#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is a Fenwick tree (Binary Indexed Tree, BIT)?	An array-based data structure that supports prefix-sum range queries and point updates in O(log n) using bitwise indexing tricks.	fenwick
Time complexity: Fenwick tree range sum query.	O(log n)	fenwick
Time complexity: Fenwick tree point update.	O(log n)	fenwick
How does a Fenwick tree determine parent/child indices?	Through bitwise operations on the binary representation of the index — typically using `i & -i` to isolate the lowest set bit.	fenwick
What does each Fenwick-tree array element store?	A precomputed sum over a range of the underlying values; the exact range is determined by the lowest set bit of the index.	fenwick
Why use a Fenwick tree instead of a prefix-sum array?	Prefix sums give O(1) queries but O(n) updates. A Fenwick tree balances both at O(log n) — better when updates are frequent.	fenwick
Space complexity of a Fenwick tree for n elements.	O(n)	fenwick
What is a Segment tree?	A tree data structure for storing intervals/segments — supports range queries (sum, min, max, gcd, etc.) and point or range updates in O(log n).	segment
Time complexity: Segment tree range query and update.	O(log n) for both.	segment
When prefer a segment tree over a Fenwick tree?	When the aggregate function isn't easily invertible (e.g. min, max, gcd) or when range updates with lazy propagation are needed. Fenwick is simpler but more limited.	segment
What is "lazy propagation" in a segment tree?	An optimization where range updates are deferred and stored at internal nodes; updates are pushed down only when queries require them. Makes range update + range query both O(log n).	segment
Space complexity of a segment tree for n elements.	O(n) — typically allocated as a 4n array to safely hold the implicit tree.	segment
Common interview problems where Fenwick / segment trees shine.	Range Sum Query — Mutable, Count of Smaller Numbers After Self, counting inversions, Range Minimum Query with updates.	practice
Why aren't Fenwick / segment trees taught in most "basic" interview prep?	They're advanced and rarely required in junior-to-mid interviews. Mainly useful for competitive programming or specialist roles (e.g. database internals, range-query systems).	interview-tips
