#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is an array?	A data structure that holds values of the same type at contiguous memory locations.	array basics
What are the two main things we usually care about when working with arrays?	The position/index of an element and the element itself.	array basics
Why are arrays generally easier to work with in Python, JavaScript, Ruby, and PHP?	Because the array (list) size is dynamic — you don't need to declare a fixed size upfront.	array basics
List two advantages of arrays.	1) Store multiple elements of the same type under one variable name. 2) Fast element access by index (O(1)).	array basics
Why is element access in an array faster than in a linked list?	Arrays allow O(1) access by index; linked lists require traversal from the head.	array basics
What is the main disadvantage of inserting or removing elements in the middle of an array?	All subsequent elements must be shifted, making the operation O(n).	array basics
What happens when an insertion would exceed the size of a fixed-size array?	A new (larger) array must be allocated and all existing elements copied over — this takes O(n).	array basics
Define a "subarray".	A range of contiguous values within an array.	array terminology
Given [2, 3, 6, 1, 5, 4], is [3, 6, 1] a subarray?	Yes — the values are contiguous in the original array.	array terminology
Given [2, 3, 6, 1, 5, 4], is [3, 1, 5] a subarray?	No — the values are not contiguous in the original array.	array terminology
Define a "subsequence".	A sequence derived from the original by deleting some or no elements without changing the order of the remaining elements.	array terminology
Given [2, 3, 6, 1, 5, 4], is [3, 1, 5] a subsequence?	Yes — the elements appear in that relative order in the original array.	array terminology
Given [2, 3, 6, 1, 5, 4], is [3, 5, 1] a subsequence?	No — the order differs from the original array.	array terminology
Time complexity: Access an element by index.	O(1)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Search in an unsorted array.	O(n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Search in a sorted array.	O(log n) — via binary search.	time-complexity
Time complexity: Insert an element at an arbitrary position.	O(n) — subsequent elements must be shifted right.	time-complexity
Time complexity: Insert an element at the end of the array.	O(1) — no shifting required (amortized for dynamic arrays).	time-complexity
Time complexity: Remove an element from an arbitrary position.	O(n) — subsequent elements must be shifted left.	time-complexity
Time complexity: Remove an element from the end of the array.	O(1) — no shifting required.	time-complexity
What should you clarify about duplicate values during an array interview?	Whether duplicates are allowed, and whether their presence makes the problem easier or harder.	interview-tips
What is the time complexity cost of slicing or concatenating arrays, and how can you avoid it?	Slicing/concatenation is typically O(n). Use start and end indices to demarcate a subarray instead.	interview-tips
Name four common corner cases to test for array problems.	1) Empty sequence. 2) Sequence with 1 or 2 elements. 3) Sequence with repeated elements. 4) Sequence with duplicated values.	interview-tips
What is the sliding window technique?	A two-pointer technique where both pointers move in the same direction and never overtake each other, ensuring each value is visited at most twice — O(n) overall.	techniques
How does the "two pointers" technique differ from "sliding window"?	Two pointers is more general — the pointers can cross each other, and can even operate on different arrays.	techniques
Give an example use case for using two pointers across two arrays.	Merging two sorted arrays — one pointer per array, advancing whichever points to the smaller element.	techniques
When might "traversing from the right" be a useful technique?	When the problem is easier to solve scanning right-to-left — e.g. Daily Temperatures, Number of Visible People in a Queue.	techniques
If an array is sorted (or partially sorted), what technique should you consider first?	Binary search — and expect the interviewer wants a solution faster than O(n).	techniques
When does sorting the array as a first step help?	When sorting simplifies the problem AND the original element order does not need to be preserved (e.g. Merge Intervals, Non-overlapping Intervals).	techniques
When is precomputation (prefix/suffix sum or product) useful?	For problems involving summation or multiplication over subarrays — e.g. Product of Array Except Self, Minimum Size Subarray Sum.	techniques
Describe the "index as a hash key" technique.	When O(1) extra space is required and values are bounded (e.g. 1..N), encode information in-place — e.g. negate arr[value - 1] to mark presence.	techniques
Give an example problem solved with "index as a hash key".	First Missing Positive.	techniques
Is traversing an array multiple times still O(n)?	Yes — any constant number of passes (fewer than n) remains O(n) overall.	techniques
Name the four "essential" array practice problems from the cheatsheet.	Two Sum, Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock, Product of Array Except Self, Maximum Subarray.	practice
Name three "recommended" array practice problems beyond the essentials.	Any three of: Contains Duplicate, Maximum Product Subarray, Search in Rotated Sorted Array, 3Sum, Container With Most Water, Sliding Window Maximum.	practice
When do "two pointers" and "sliding window" coincide?	When the two pointers move in the same direction without crossing — that's sliding window. If they cross or scan from opposite ends, it's the broader two-pointer pattern.	techniques
For 3Sum-style k-sum problems, what's the typical approach?	Sort the array, fix one element, and use two pointers on the remaining range — O(n²) for 3Sum.	techniques
What is Kadane's algorithm?	A linear-time DP for Maximum Subarray — track a running sum, reset to 0 when it goes negative, and keep a running maximum.	techniques
What is a prefix-sum array, and what is the prefix sum of [1, 2, 3, 4]?	prefix[i] = arr[0] + ... + arr[i]. For [1, 2, 3, 4] it's [1, 3, 6, 10]. Enables O(1) range-sum queries after O(n) preprocessing.	techniques
Why is appending to a dynamic array O(1) amortized despite occasional O(n) resizes?	Resizes typically double the capacity, so the total cost over n appends is O(n) — averaging to O(1) per append.	array basics
