#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is a greedy algorithm?	An algorithm that makes locally optimal choices at each step in the hope of reaching a globally optimal solution.	greedy basics
What two properties must a problem have for a greedy solution to work?	1) Optimal substructure — an optimal solution contains optimal solutions to subproblems. 2) The greedy property — the locally optimal choice leads to the global optimum without reconsidering past choices.	greedy basics
What is "optimal substructure"?	The property that an optimal solution to a problem contains optimal solutions to its subproblems.	greedy basics
What is "the greedy property"?	An optimal solution can be reached by repeatedly choosing the locally optimal option, never revisiting earlier choices.	greedy basics
Coin Change with US denominations (1, 5, 10, 25) — does greedy work?	Yes — repeatedly take the largest coin ≤ remaining amount. Greedy is optimal for "canonical" coin systems like US currency.	greedy basics
Coin Change with denominations [1, 3, 4] and V = 6 — does greedy give the optimal answer?	No — greedy yields 4+1+1 = 3 coins, but the optimum is 3+3 = 2 coins. Greedy fails for non-canonical denomination sets; use DP.	greedy basics
Greedy vs Dynamic Programming — what's the key difference?	Greedy commits to a single locally-best choice at each step. DP considers all relevant choices and combines optimal subproblem solutions.	greedy basics
Greedy algorithm for Activity Selection (interval scheduling).	Sort by end time; pick the activity that finishes earliest, then repeatedly pick the next compatible activity (one whose start ≥ previously selected end).	techniques
Why sort by finish time in activity selection?	Finishing earliest leaves the largest remaining time window for further selections — proven optimal via exchange argument.	techniques
Greedy approach for Jump Game.	Track the furthest reachable index; at each i ≤ reach, update reach = max(reach, i + nums[i]). Return whether reach covers the last index.	techniques
What is an "exchange argument" in greedy proofs?	A correctness proof technique: show any non-greedy choice can be swapped for the greedy choice without making the solution worse — therefore the greedy choice is safe.	techniques
Why is Dijkstra's algorithm considered greedy?	At each step it commits to the unvisited vertex with the smallest tentative distance — a locally optimal choice that proves globally optimal for non-negative weights.	techniques
Why are Prim's and Kruskal's MST algorithms greedy?	Each repeatedly picks the locally cheapest valid edge — Prim's grows a single tree; Kruskal's adds globally cheapest edges that don't create cycles. Both produce a globally optimal MST.	techniques
Why does Huffman coding work as a greedy algorithm?	Repeatedly merging the two least-frequent symbols produces an optimal-length prefix code — a classic exchange-argument proof.	techniques
Common greedy interview problems.	Activity Selection / Meeting Rooms, Jump Game, Gas Station, Task Scheduler, Minimum Number of Arrows to Burst Balloons, Assign Cookies, Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock II.	practice
Why might a greedy algorithm fail in a problem that "looks greedy"?	Locally optimal choices can foreclose better global combinations. If the greedy choice doesn't safely commit (no regret), you typically need DP or backtracking instead.	greedy basics
