#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is a heap?	A specialized complete tree-based data structure satisfying the heap property.	heap basics
What is a max heap?	Each node's value is ≥ all values in its subtree (the root is the largest element).	heap basics
What is a min heap?	Each node's value is ≤ all values in its subtree (the root is the smallest element).	heap basics
For interview purposes, are heaps and priority queues the same thing?	Yes — they can be treated interchangeably.	heap basics
When is a heap the right data structure?	When you need to repeatedly extract the maximum or minimum (highest/lowest priority) element, possibly interleaved with insertions.	heap basics
C++ heap / priority queue API.	`std::priority_queue`	implementations
Java heap / priority queue API.	`java.util.PriorityQueue`	implementations
Python heap API.	`heapq` (a min-heap on a list).	implementations
Time complexity: Find max/min in a heap.	O(1)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Insert into a heap.	O(log n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Remove the root of a heap.	O(log n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Heapify an array of n elements.	O(n)	time-complexity
What's a strong signal that a problem can be solved with a heap?	The question mentions "top k" or "lowest k" elements.	techniques
How do you efficiently find the top k largest elements with a heap?	Use a Min Heap of size k. Push each element; whenever heap size exceeds k, pop the smallest. The heap then holds the k largest.	techniques
How do you simulate a max heap using Python's `heapq` (which is min-heap)?	Push negated values; negate again when popping.	techniques
Name two essential heap practice questions.	Merge K Sorted Lists, K Closest Points to Origin.	practice
Name two recommended heap practice questions.	Top K Frequent Elements, Find Median from Data Stream.	practice
How is a binary heap stored in memory?	In an array. For a node at index i: left child is at 2i+1, right child at 2i+2, parent at (i-1)//2.	heap basics
Sift up (heapify up) — when is it used?	After inserting at the end, bubble the new element up by swapping with its parent until the heap property holds. O(log n).	techniques
Sift down (heapify down) — when is it used?	After replacing the root (e.g. on extract), push the element down by swapping with the smaller (min-heap) or larger (max-heap) child until ordered. O(log n).	techniques
How do you find the median of a data stream in O(log n) per insertion?	Maintain a max-heap (lower half) and a min-heap (upper half), balanced in size. Median is the top of the larger heap, or the average of both tops if equal in size.	techniques
Why is bulk heapify O(n) but n individual inserts O(n log n)?	Building a heap bottom-up does O(1) work for most leaves and O(log n) only for the few nodes near the root; the sum is O(n).	time-complexity
