#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is a linked list?	A linear collection of nodes where each node stores data and a reference to the next node — order is given by links, not by physical memory placement.	linked-list basics
What is the key advantage of a linked list over an array?	Insertion and deletion at a known position is O(1) — no element shifting required.	linked-list basics
What is the key disadvantage of a linked list vs. an array?	Access is O(n) — you can't jump to an index; you must traverse from the head.	linked-list basics
What is a singly linked list?	Each node points to the next; the last node points to null.	linked-list types
What is a doubly linked list?	Each node has `next` and `prev` pointers. The first node's `prev` and last node's `next` are null.	linked-list types
What is a circular linked list?	A singly linked list where the last node points back to the first. A circular doubly-linked variant also connects first.prev to last and last.next to first.	linked-list types
Time complexity: Access a node in a linked list.	O(n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Search in a linked list.	O(n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Insert in a linked list (assuming you've traversed to the position).	O(1)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Remove a node (assuming you've traversed to it).	O(1)	time-complexity
List four common routines used in many linked-list problems.	1) Count nodes. 2) Reverse in place. 3) Find the middle with fast/slow pointers. 4) Merge two lists.	techniques
Name four corner cases for linked-list problems.	Empty list (null head), single node, two nodes, list with a cycle.	interview-tips
What should you clarify about cycles in a linked list?	Whether the list can contain a cycle — usually the answer is no.	interview-tips
What is a sentinel / dummy node and why use it?	A placeholder node at the head/tail. It avoids special-case logic for operations at the head/tail and simplifies null-pointer handling. Remember to strip it at the end.	techniques
Two-pointer trick: how to find the kth-from-last node?	Move one pointer k nodes ahead, then advance both together; when the lead pointer reaches the end, the trailing pointer is at the kth-from-last.	techniques
Two-pointer trick: how to detect a cycle in a linked list?	Use a slow pointer (moves 1) and a fast pointer (moves 2). If they meet, there's a cycle.	techniques
Two-pointer trick: how to find the middle node?	Use slow/fast pointers — when fast reaches the end, slow is at the middle.	techniques
Why do interviewers usually want in-place linked-list modification?	Using extra space (e.g. building a new list) is too easy and trivializes the problem. In-place forces you to manipulate pointers.	interview-tips
How do you truncate a linked list at a node?	Set that node's `next` pointer to null.	techniques
How do you swap two linked-list node values?	Just swap the values — no need to rewire `next` pointers.	techniques
How do you combine two linked lists?	Attach the head of the second list to the tail of the first.	techniques
Name two essential linked-list practice questions.	Reverse a Linked List, Detect Cycle in a Linked List.	practice
Name three recommended linked-list practice questions.	Any of: Merge Two Sorted Lists, Merge K Sorted Lists, Remove Nth Node From End Of List, Reorder List.	practice
Recursive reverse of a linked list — what's the base case?	Empty list or single node — return the node as-is.	techniques
Floyd's cycle detection: how do you find the start of the cycle (phase 2)?	After fast/slow pointers meet, move one pointer to the head and advance both one step at a time. They meet at the cycle's start.	techniques
Why are dummy heads especially useful in "Remove Nth from End"?	They sidestep the special case when the node being removed is the head — no separate logic needed.	techniques
Merge two sorted linked lists — what's the cleanest implementation pattern?	Use a dummy head; compare current nodes from each list, attach the smaller, advance that pointer. Attach the remaining tail at the end.	techniques
Iterative reverse of a linked list — describe the loop.	Track prev and curr. Repeatedly: next = curr.next; curr.next = prev; prev = curr; curr = next. Return prev.	techniques
