#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is recursion?	A method of solving a problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem.	recursion basics
What are the two essential parts of every recursive function?	1) A base case (or cases) that stops recursion. 2) Logic that breaks the problem into a smaller subproblem and invokes the recursive call.	recursion basics
What are the Fibonacci sequence's base cases and recurrence?	Base: fib(0)=0, fib(1)=1. Recurrence: fib(i) = fib(i-1) + fib(i-2).	recursion basics
Name four well-known algorithms that use recursion heavily.	Binary search, merge sort, tree traversal, depth-first search.	recursion basics
What happens if you forget the base case in a recursive function?	Infinite recursion — eventually causing a stack overflow.	interview-tips
Why is recursion useful for permutation and tree problems?	It naturally explores all combinations / all branches by reducing to smaller subproblems.	interview-tips
Recursion implicitly uses what data structure?	A call stack. So any recursive solution can be rewritten iteratively using an explicit stack.	interview-tips
Why is recursion typically not O(1) space?	The call stack consumes memory proportional to recursion depth — unless tail-call optimization (TCO) is available.	interview-tips
What is tail-call optimization (TCO)?	An optimization where a recursive call in tail position reuses the current stack frame, avoiding stack growth.	interview-tips
What's Python's default recursion depth limit?	1000.	interview-tips
How many base cases should a recursive function have?	Enough to cover all possible invocations within the input range. If the function calls fn(n-2), you need 2 base cases; if only fn(n-1), one suffices.	interview-tips
Name three corner cases to consider for recursion problems.	n = 0, n = 1, and ensuring enough base cases for all possible invocations.	interview-tips
What is memoization?	Caching results of previously-computed inputs so repeated calls return immediately — converting exponential recursion into polynomial time.	techniques
Why does memoization help with naive Fibonacci?	Without it, fib(3) and other subproblems get recomputed many times. Memoization reduces it from exponential to O(n).	techniques
Name three essential recursion practice questions.	Generate Parentheses, Combinations, Subsets.	practice
Name three recommended recursion practice questions.	Any of: Letter Combinations of a Phone Number, Subsets II, Permutations, Sudoku Solver, Strobogrammatic Number II.	practice
What is backtracking?	A recursive technique that incrementally builds candidates and abandons (backtracks from) a partial candidate as soon as it cannot lead to a valid solution.	techniques
Standard backtracking template — what are the three steps inside the recursive function?	1) Check the base case / valid solution. 2) For each choice: make the choice → recurse → undo the choice. 3) Prune invalid branches early.	techniques
Difference between recursion and iteration.	Recursion expresses an algorithm via smaller instances of itself; iteration uses explicit loops and state. Recursion uses stack space; iteration may not.	recursion basics
Time complexity of naive recursive Fibonacci.	O(2^n) — exponential due to repeated subproblem computation.	time-complexity
Time complexity of memoized Fibonacci.	O(n) time and O(n) space.	time-complexity
Why is tail recursion preferred where supported?	The compiler can reuse the current stack frame for the call — constant stack space, equivalent to iteration.	techniques
Number of permutations of n distinct elements.	n!	techniques
Number of subsets of an n-element set.	2^n	techniques
How does recursion relate to divide-and-conquer?	Divide-and-conquer recursively splits a problem into independent subproblems, solves them, and combines results — e.g. merge sort, quicksort, binary search.	recursion basics
