#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is a string in data-structure terms?	A sequence of characters — essentially an array of characters, so most array techniques apply.	string basics
Name two data structures commonly used to look up strings.	Trie (Prefix Tree) and Suffix Tree.	string basics
Name two well-known efficient substring search algorithms.	Rabin-Karp (rolling hash) and KMP (Knuth-Morris-Pratt).	string basics
Time complexity: Access a character in a string.	O(1)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Search for a character in a string.	O(n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Insert/Remove a character in a string.	O(n)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Naive substring search (string of length n vs. pattern of length m).	O(n·m) — faster algorithms (e.g. KMP) exist.	time-complexity
Time complexity: Concatenating two strings of length n and m.	O(n + m)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Slicing a string of length m.	O(m)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Splitting a string of length n by a token of length m.	O(n + m)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Stripping leading/trailing whitespace from a string of length n.	O(n)	time-complexity
What should you clarify about the character set in a string question?	The input character set and case sensitivity (e.g. only lowercase a-z, ASCII, Unicode).	interview-tips
Name four corner cases to consider for string problems.	Empty string, string with 1 or 2 characters, string with repeated characters, string with only distinct characters.	interview-tips
What's the space complexity of a character counter for lowercase Latin characters?	O(1) — bounded by the fixed alphabet (e.g. 26), not by input length.	techniques
For a string containing only unique lowercase letters, what's a neat O(1)-space way to track which letters are present?	Use a 26-bit bitmask: `mask |= (1 << (ord(c) - ord('a')))`.	techniques
How can you tell if two strings share any common characters using bitmasks?	If `mask_a & mask_b > 0`, they share at least one character.	techniques
What is an anagram?	A rearrangement of the letters of a word/phrase using all original letters exactly once to form a new word/phrase.	techniques
List three approaches to check if two strings are anagrams.	1) Sort both strings (O(n log n) time, O(n) space). 2) Map each char to a prime and compare products (O(n) time, O(1) space). 3) Frequency counting (O(n) time, O(1) space).	techniques
What is a palindrome?	A sequence that reads the same backward as forward (e.g. "madam", "racecar").	techniques
Name two ways to check if a string is a palindrome.	1) Reverse it and compare to the original. 2) Use two pointers moving inward from both ends, checking equality at each step.	techniques
Why are hash tables usually unhelpful for palindrome problems?	The order of characters matters, and hash tables don't preserve order.	techniques
When counting palindromes, what is the two-pointer "expand from center" trick?	For each pivot, expand outward; check both odd-length (single center) and even-length (two-character center) palindromes.	techniques
For palindrome substring problems, can you terminate early when a mismatch is found?	Yes — substrings must be contiguous, so a mismatch ends that expansion.	techniques
Why is dynamic programming used for longest palindromic subsequence?	Subsequences have overlapping subproblems — DP avoids recomputing them.	techniques
Name three essential string practice questions.	Valid Anagram, Valid Palindrome, Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters.	practice
Name three recommended string practice questions beyond the essentials.	Any of: Longest Repeating Character Replacement, Find All Anagrams in a String, Minimum Window Substring, Group Anagrams, Longest Palindromic Substring, Encode and Decode Strings.	practice
What is a rolling hash?	A hash function over a sliding window that updates in O(1) per shift — the basis of the Rabin-Karp algorithm.	techniques
What does KMP avoid that naive substring search does?	Backtracking the text pointer — KMP precomputes a failure table so it never re-examines characters of the text.	techniques
Time complexity of KMP substring search.	O(n + m) for text length n and pattern length m.	time-complexity
Why are strings often immutable in languages like Java and Python?	Immutability enables interning, safe sharing across threads, and use as hash keys — but makes naive concatenation expensive.	string basics
What's the cost of building a string with repeated `+=` concatenation in Python?	O(n²) — each concatenation creates a new string. Use `"".join(list_of_strings)` for O(n).	interview-tips
What's the optimal expected time for Longest Palindromic Substring?	O(n²) with the expand-from-center approach; O(n) with Manacher's algorithm (rarely required in interviews).	techniques
Sliding window template — what state usually lives inside the window?	Character counts (hash map or fixed-size array), the running length, and any validity flags driven by the problem's constraint.	techniques
What assumption makes anagram comparison O(n) time / O(1) space?	A bounded alphabet (e.g., 26 lowercase letters) — the count array is then constant-size.	techniques
What's a common encoding trick for "Encode and Decode Strings"?	Prefix each string with its length and a delimiter (e.g., "5#hello") so split-by-delimiter is safe even if strings contain the delimiter.	techniques
