#separator:tab
#html:false
#tags column:3
What is a trie?	A special tree (a "prefix tree") that makes searching and storing strings efficient by sharing common prefixes between strings.	trie basics
Name two common real-world applications of tries.	Search/autocomplete systems; dictionary word lookup.	trie basics
What three core methods should you be able to implement on a Trie class from scratch?	`add`, `remove`, and `search`.	trie basics
Time complexity: Search a string of length m in a trie.	O(m)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Insert a string of length m into a trie.	O(m)	time-complexity
Time complexity: Remove a string of length m from a trie.	O(m)	time-complexity
Name two corner cases for trie problems.	Searching for a string in an empty trie; inserting empty strings.	interview-tips
Why preprocess a list of words into a trie?	Searching for a word of length k becomes O(k) instead of O(n) where n is the number of words.	techniques
Name an essential trie practice question.	Implement Trie (Prefix Tree).	practice
Name three recommended trie practice questions.	Add and Search Word, Word Break, Word Search II.	practice
What does a trie node typically contain?	A map of children (e.g. character → child node) and a flag indicating whether this node terminates a stored word.	trie basics
Space complexity of storing n words of total length L in a trie.	O(L) — shared prefixes don't double-count; alphabet size affects per-node overhead.	time-complexity
Why is trie lookup time independent of n (number of stored words)?	Lookup walks down the tree character by character — depth equals the search string's length, not the total word count.	trie basics
How do you search for a prefix vs. an exact word in a trie?	Both walk down character by character; prefix search returns true if the walk completes. Exact-word search additionally requires the end node's "is-word" flag set.	techniques
How do you implement `delete` in a trie?	Walk to the word's end node and unset the is-word flag; on the way back, remove any node that has no children and isn't a word terminator.	techniques
What is a radix tree (compressed trie)?	A trie where chains of single-child nodes are collapsed into a single edge labeled with a string — saves space when many keys share long unique suffixes.	trie basics
Wildcard search in a trie (Add-and-Search-Word) — how do you handle "."?	When the character is ".", recurse into every existing child at that level; otherwise descend into the matching child only.	techniques
Why is a trie particularly suited to "Word Search II"?	You walk board cells with DFS while simultaneously walking the trie — letters that don't extend any prefix prune immediately, beating naive per-word search.	techniques
